README.md, before:

# Dash APM Workshop (2018)

This repo contains microservices written in Python and Docker for an APM Workshop I'm running at [DASH](https://www.dashcon.io/) in 2018. 

This repo builds upon the excellent work of [vlad-mh's PyCon UK talk](https://github.com/vlad-mh/pyconuk-2017) about APM, and the [dd-py-tracing-workshop](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-py-tracing-workshop) from [mstbbs](https://github.com/mstbbs).

This repo is meant to be used alongside the Jupyter notebooks in this repo. 

You'll check out this repo, run `jupyter notebook`, and run the docker containers here from within the Jupyter notebook.

# Pre APM Event Prep

Because Wifi tends to be spotty at events, it would help if you downloaded the Docker images ahead of time.

If you don't already have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed locally, you'll need to do that too. 

Once you've got that running, you can then clone this repo, and from within the top level directory run a `STEP=1 docker-compose up`. 

Docker will download all the images necessary for you to run through the event. All of the Docker images are pinned, so they won't change.

You'll be making for a better experience for everyone else. Thanks!

# Event Flow

We'll run through the first Jupyter notebook found [here](https://github.com/burningion/dash-apm-workshop/blob/master/APM%20Tracing%20Quickstart.ipynb), to familiarize ourselves with the concepts of tracing.

After setting up our Datadog accounts and sending some traces, we'll then jump into [Distributed Tracing](https://github.com/burningion/dash-apm-workshop/blob/master/APM%20Tracing%20Quickstart.ipynb), and see how to send traces across services. We'll walk through instrumenting databases, microservices, and caching systems.

# Running the Examples

You'll need to first create a Datadog account, and then get your API key from the prompt. 

You'll then be able to start the example project with a:

```bash
DD_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY> STEP=1 docker-compose up
```

Commit message:

Add instructions for Docker for Windows

README.md, after:

# Dash APM Workshop (2018)

This repo contains microservices written in Python and Docker for an APM Workshop I'm running at [DASH](https://www.dashcon.io/) in 2018. 

This repo builds upon the excellent work of [vlad-mh's PyCon UK talk](https://github.com/vlad-mh/pyconuk-2017) about APM, and the [dd-py-tracing-workshop](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-py-tracing-workshop) from [mstbbs](https://github.com/mstbbs).

This repo is meant to be used alongside the Jupyter notebooks in this repo. 

You'll check out this repo, run `jupyter notebook`, and run the docker containers here from within the Jupyter notebook.

# Pre APM Event Prep

Because Wifi tends to be spotty at events, it would help if you downloaded the Docker images ahead of time.

If you don't already have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed locally, you'll need to do that too. 

Once you've got that running, you can then clone this repo, and from within the top level directory run a `STEP=1 docker-compose up`. 

Docker will download all the images necessary for you to run through the event. All of the Docker images are pinned, so they won't change.

You'll be making for a better experience for everyone else. Thanks!

# Event Flow

We'll run through the first Jupyter notebook found [here](https://github.com/burningion/dash-apm-workshop/blob/master/APM%20Tracing%20Quickstart.ipynb), to familiarize ourselves with the concepts of tracing.

After setting up our Datadog accounts and sending some traces, we'll then jump into [Distributed Tracing](https://github.com/burningion/dash-apm-workshop/blob/master/APM%20Tracing%20Quickstart.ipynb), and see how to send traces across services. We'll walk through instrumenting databases, microservices, and caching systems.

# Running the Examples in MacOS / Linux

You'll need to first create a Datadog account, and then get your API key from the prompt. 

You'll then be able to start the example project with a:

```bash
DD_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY> STEP=1 docker-compose up
```
# Running the Examples in Windows

In Windows, most things should _just work_ the same in Powershell, as long as you've got the latest version of Docker installed.

One difference from MacOS / Linux is how environment variables are set to run the `docker-compose` commands.

Open up a Powershell instance, and set your environment variables before starting the containers. You can do this with the following command:

```powershell
PS C:\Dev\dash-apm-workshop> $env:STEP=5
PS C:\Dev\dash-apm-workshop> $env:DD_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
PS C:\Dev\dash-apm-workshop> docker-compose up
```

For each part of the lessons, just replace the setting of environment variables as above. Feel free to create a Github issue if you have any problems.
